{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1671\cocoasubrtf600
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww16120\viewh18440\viewkind0
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 \
1. 	Filter: \{name:"Babelgum"\}\
	Project: \{_id: 0, name: 1\}\
	\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 2. 	Filter: \{number_of_employees:\{$gt:5000\}\}\
	Project: \{number_of_employees: 1\}\
	limit: 20\
\
3. 	Filter: \{$and: [\{founded_year:\{$gte:2000\}\},\{founded_year:\{$lte:2005\}\}]\}\
	Project: \{name: 1, founded_year: 1, _id: 0\}\
\
4. 	Filter: \{$and: [\{"ipo.valuation_amount": \{$gt:100000000\}\}, \{founded_year: \{$lte: 2010\}\}]\}\
	Project: \{name: 1, ipo: 1, _id:0\}\
\
5. 	Filter: \{$and:[\{number_of_employees:\{$lt:1000\}\}, \{founded_year:\{$lte:2005\}\}]\}\
	Sort: \{number_of_employees: -1\}  \
	limit: 10\
\
6. 	Filter: \{partners: \{ $exists: false\}\}\
\
7. 	Filter: \{category_code: null\}\
\
8. 	Filter: \{$and: [\{number_of_employees: \{$gte:100\}\}, \{number_of_employees: \{$lt:1000\}\}]\}\
	Project: \{name: 1, number_of_employees: 1, _id: 0\}\
\
9. 	Sort: \{"ipo.valuation_amount": -1\}\
\
10. 	Sort: \{number_of_employees: -1\}\
	limit: 10\
\
11. 	Filter: \{founded_month: \{$gte:7\}\}\
	Sort: 1000\
\
12. 	Filter: \{$and: [\{"acquisition.price_amount": \{$gt:10000000\}\}, \{founded_year: \{$lt:2000\}\}]\}\
\
13. 	Filter: \{founded_year: \{$gt: 2010\}\}\
	Project: \{name:1, acquisition:1,_id:0\}\
	Sort: \{"acquisition.price_amount": 1\}\
\
14. 	Project:  \{name:1, founded_year:1, _id:0\}\
	Sort: \{founded_year: 1\}\
\
15. 	Filter: \{founded_day: \{$lte:7\}\}\
	Sort: \{"acquisition.price_amount": -1\}\
	limit: 10\
\
16. 	Filter: \{$and: [\{number_of_employees: \{$gt:4000\}\}, \{category_code: "web"\}]\}\
	Sort: \{number_of_employees: 1\}\
\
17. 	Filter: \{$and: [\{"acquisition.price_amount": \{$gt: 10000000\}\},\{"acquisitions.price_currency_code": "EUR"\}]\}\
\
18. 	Filter: \{"acquisitions.acquired_month": \{$lte:3\}\}\
	Project: \{name:1, acquisition:1, _id:0\}\
	limit: 10\
\
19. 	Filter: \{$and: [\{"acquisitions.acquired_year":\{$gte:2011\}\}, \{founded_year: \{$gte: 2000\}\}, \{founded_year: \{$lte:2010\}\}]\}}