starter_code/queries.md, before:

![Ironhack Logo](https://i.imgur.com/1QgrNNw.png)

# Answers

### 1. All the companies that it's name match 'Babelgum'. Retrieve only their `name` field.

query: {name: "Babelgum"}
projection: {name: 1, _id: 0}

### 2. All the companies that have more than 5000 employees. Limit the search to 20 companies and sort them by **number of employees**.

query: {number_of_employees:{$gt:5000}}
sort: {number_of_employees:1}
limit: 20

### 3. All the companies founded between 2000 and 2005, both years included. Retrieve only the `name` and `founded_year` fileds.

query: {$and: [{founded_year:{$gte: 2000}},{founded_year:{$lte:2005}}]}
projection: {name:1, founded_year:1, _id:0}

### 4. All the companies that had a Valuation Amount of more than 100.000.000 and have been founded before 2010. Retrieve only the `name` and `ipo` fields.

query: {"ipo.valuation_amount": {$gt: 100000000}, founded_year: {$lt: 2010}}
projection: {name:1,ipo:1,_id:0}

### 5. All the companies that have less than 1000 employees and have been founded before 2005. Order them by the number of employees and limit the search to 10 companies.

query:{$and: [{founded_year:{$lt: 2005}},{number_of_employees:{$lt:1000}}]}
limit: 10

### 6. All the companies that don't include the `partners` field.

query: {partners: {$exists: false}}

### 7. All the companies that have a null type of value on the `category_code` field.

query: {category_code:{$eq:null}}

### 8. All the companies that have at least 100 employees but less than 1000. Retrieve only the `name` and `number of employees` fields.

query: /You should copy/paste the query in here/
projection: /You should copy/paste the projection in here/
sort: /You should copy/paste the sort in here/
skip: /You should copy/paste the skip in here/
limit: /You should copy/paste the limit in here/

### 9. Order all the companies by their IPO price descendently.

sort: {"ipo.valuation_amount":-1}

### 10. Retrieve the 10 companies with more employees, order by the `number of employees`

query: {number_of_employees: {$gte:100,$lt:1000}} 
projection: {name: 1, number_of_employees: 1, _id:0}

### 11. All the companies founded on the second semester of the year. Limit your search to 1000 companies.

query:{founded_month:{$gte:6}}
limit: 1000

### 12. All the companies that have been 'deadpooled' after the third year.

query: /You should copy/paste the query in here/
projection: /You should copy/paste the projection in here/
sort: /You should copy/paste the sort in here/
skip: /You should copy/paste the skip in here/
limit: /You should copy/paste the limit in here/

### 13. All the companies founded before 2000 that have and acquisition amount of more than 10.000.000

filter:{$and: [{founded_year: {$lt: 2000}},{"acquisitions.price_amount": {$gt: 1000000}}]}

### 14. All the companies that have been acquired after 2015, order by the acquisition amount, and retrieve only their `name` and `acquisiton` field.

query: {"acquisition.acquired_year": {$gt: 2015}}
projection: {name: 1, acquisition:1, _id: 0}
sort: {"acquisition.price_amount": -1}

### 15. Order the companies by their `founded year`, retrieving only their `name` and `founded year`.

projection: {name: 1, founded_year: 1, _id: 0}
sort: {founded_year: -1}

### 16. All the companies that have been founded on the first seven days of the month, including the seventh. Sort them by their `aquisition price` descendently. Limit the search to 10 documents.

query: {founded_day: {$lte:7}}
sort: {"acquisition.price_amount": -1}
limit: 10

### 17. All the companies on the 'web' `category` that have more than 4000 employees. Sort them by the amount of employees in ascendant order.

query: {number_of_employees: {$gt: 4000}}
sort: {number_of_employees: 1}

### 18. All the companies which their acquisition amount is more than 10.000.000, and currency are 'EUR'.

query: /You should copy/paste the query in here/
projection: /You should copy/paste the projection in here/
sort: /You should copy/paste the sort in here/
skip: /You should copy/paste the skip in here/
limit: /You should copy/paste the limit in here/

### 19. All the companies that have been acquired on the first trimester of the year. Limit the search to 10 companies, and retrieve only their `name` and `acquisition` fields.

query: {"acquisition.acquired_month": {$lte: 3}}
projection: {name: 1, acquisition: 1, _id:0}

### 20. All the companies that have been founded between 2000 and 2010, but have not been acquired before 2011.

query: /You should copy/paste the query in here/
projection: /You should copy/paste the projection in here/
sort: /You should copy/paste the sort in here/
skip: /You should copy/paste the skip in here/
limit: /You should copy/paste the limit in here/

Commit message:

Complete except for 12, companies that have been deadpooled after the third year.

starter_code/queries.md, after:

![Ironhack Logo](https://i.imgur.com/1QgrNNw.png)

# Answers

### 1. All the companies that it's name match 'Babelgum'. Retrieve only their `name` field.

query: {name: "Babelgum"}
projection: {name: 1, _id: 0}

### 2. All the companies that have more than 5000 employees. Limit the search to 20 companies and sort them by **number of employees**.

query: {number_of_employees:{$gt:5000}}
sort: {number_of_employees:1}
limit: 20

### 3. All the companies founded between 2000 and 2005, both years included. Retrieve only the `name` and `founded_year` fileds.

query: {$and: [{founded_year:{$gte: 2000}},{founded_year:{$lte:2005}}]}
projection: {name:1, founded_year:1, _id:0}

### 4. All the companies that had a Valuation Amount of more than 100.000.000 and have been founded before 2010. Retrieve only the `name` and `ipo` fields.

query: {"ipo.valuation_amount": {$gt: 100000000}, founded_year: {$lt: 2010}}
projection: {name:1,ipo:1,_id:0}

### 5. All the companies that have less than 1000 employees and have been founded before 2005. Order them by the number of employees and limit the search to 10 companies.

query:{$and: [{founded_year:{$lt: 2005}},{number_of_employees:{$lt:1000}}]}
limit: 10

### 6. All the companies that don't include the `partners` field.

query: {partners: {$exists: false}}

### 7. All the companies that have a null type of value on the `category_code` field.

query: {category_code:{$eq:null}}

### 8. All the companies that have at least 100 employees but less than 1000. Retrieve only the `name` and `number of employees` fields.

query: {$and: [{number_of_employees: {$lt:1000}},{number_of_employees: {$gte:100}}]}
projection: {name: 1, number_of_employees: 1, _id:0}

### 9. Order all the companies by their IPO price descendently.

sort: {"ipo.valuation_amount":-1}

### 10. Retrieve the 10 companies with more employees, order by the `number of employees`

query: {number_of_employees: {$gte:100,$lt:1000}} 
projection: {name: 1, number_of_employees: 1, _id:0}

### 11. All the companies founded on the second semester of the year. Limit your search to 1000 companies.

query:{founded_month:{$gte:6}}
limit: 1000

### 12. All the companies that have been 'deadpooled' after the third year.

query: /You should copy/paste the query in here/
projection: /You should copy/paste the projection in here/
sort: /You should copy/paste the sort in here/
skip: /You should copy/paste the skip in here/
limit: /You should copy/paste the limit in here/

### 13. All the companies founded before 2000 that have and acquisition amount of more than 10.000.000

filter:{$and: [{founded_year: {$lt: 2000}},{"acquisitions.price_amount": {$gt: 1000000}}]}

### 14. All the companies that have been acquired after 2015, order by the acquisition amount, and retrieve only their `name` and `acquisiton` field.

query: {"acquisition.acquired_year": {$gt: 2015}}
projection: {name: 1, acquisition:1, _id: 0}
sort: {"acquisition.price_amount": -1}

### 15. Order the companies by their `founded year`, retrieving only their `name` and `founded year`.

projection: {name: 1, founded_year: 1, _id: 0}
sort: {founded_year: -1}

### 16. All the companies that have been founded on the first seven days of the month, including the seventh. Sort them by their `aquisition price` descendently. Limit the search to 10 documents.

query: {founded_day: {$lte:7}}
sort: {"acquisition.price_amount": -1}
limit: 10

### 17. All the companies on the 'web' `category` that have more than 4000 employees. Sort them by the amount of employees in ascendant order.

query: {number_of_employees: {$gt: 4000}}
sort: {number_of_employees: 1}

### 18. All the companies which their acquisition amount is more than 10.000.000, and currency are 'EUR'.

query: {$and: [{"acquisition.price_amount":{$gt: 10000000}}, {"acquisition.price_currency_code": {$eq: "EUR"}} ]}

### 19. All the companies that have been acquired on the first trimester of the year. Limit the search to 10 companies, and retrieve only their `name` and `acquisition` fields.

query: {"acquisition.acquired_month": {$lte: 3}}
projection: {name: 1, acquisition: 1, _id:0}

### 20. All the companies that have been founded between 2000 and 2010, but have not been acquired before 2011.

query: {$and: [{founded_year: {$gte: 2000}}, {founded_year: {$lte: 2010}}, {"acquisition.acquired_year": {$gte: 2011}} ]}
